An RFC for creating an RFC process. :) (#1543)
model-checking/kani: rfcs/src/intro.md

# Introduction

Kani is an open-source verification tool that uses automated reasoning to analyze Rust programs. In order to 
integrate feedback from developers and users on future changes to Kani, we decided to follow a light-weight 
"RFC" (request for comments) process.

> ## When to create an RFC

Author: TBH, I think we need to improve this criteria. I think it's too open right now.

As a rule of thumb you should create an RFC if you are making changes that impact the user experience. New 

> APIs, new features, as well as deprecation, should follow an RFC process. We also ask for substantial architectural 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
APIs, new features, as well as depreciation, should follow an RFC process. We also ask for substantial architectural 
```

> APIs, new features, as well as depreciation, should follow an RFC process. We also ask for substantial architectural 

Reviewer 2: IMO, we should be explicit about a lighter-weight process option here. Changes are usually going to be:

1. Simple enough to not need an RFC
2. Complex enough to merit discussion and get consensus on design choices, but perhaps as a github issue rather than an RFC proper.
3. Important enough to merit an RFC-like process, especially when it comes to soliciting customer feedback.

Author: I would prefer start with 2 modes only. For the case where it merit discussion and get consensus, I would prefer using an RFC PR instead of an issue. It's OK if the RFC document is fairly small.

We can adjust as we go.

> As a rule of thumb you should create an RFC if you are making changes that impact the user experience. New 
> APIs, new features, as well as depreciation, should follow an RFC process. We also ask for substantial architectural 
> changes to be made via RFC.
> 
> Bugs and smaller improvements to existing features do not require an RFC. If you are in doubt, feel free to create 
> a [feature request](https://github.com/model-checking/kani/issues/new?assignees=&labels=&template=feature_request.md)
> and discuss the next steps in the new issue.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You should create an RFC in one of two cases:

1. The change you are proposing would be a "one way door": e.g. a change to the public API, a new feature that would be difficult to modify once released, deprecating a feature, etc.
2. The change you are making has a significant design component, and would benefit from a design review.

Bugs and smaller improvements to existing features do not require an RFC.
If you are in doubt, feel free to create  a [feature request](https://github.com/model-checking/kani/issues/new?assignees=&labels=&template=feature_request.md) and discuss the next steps in the new issue.
Your PR reviewer may also request an RFC if your change appears to fall into category 1 or 2.

You do not necessarily need to create an RFC immediately. It is our experience that it is often best to write some "proof of concept" code to test out possible ideas before writing the formal RFC.```

## The RFC process

This is the overall workflow for the RFC process:

```toml

>     Create RFC ──> Receive Feedback  ──> Accepted?

Reviewer 3: You might want to note the `recieve feedback`/`revise` loop.

Also, the `Implement` -> `Revise RFC` feedback edge

Author: I added the first. The second I added a note to the item below (I'm worried that the diagram is getting too complicated). Is that OK?

                                            │ Y
                                            ├───> Implement ───> Stabilize?
                                            │ N                      │ Y
                                            └───> Close PR           ├───> RFC Stable
                                                                     │ N
                                                                     └───> Remove feature
```

1. Create an RFC
   1. Start from a fork of the Kani repository.

>    2. Copy the template file ([`rfcs/src/template.md`](./template.md)) to `rfcs/src/<my-feature>.md`.

Reviewer 3: I like having numbered RFCs.  Perhaps say copy to `rfcs/src/<ID_NUMBER><my-feature>.md`

Author: I added the ID_NUMBER. Any suggestion on how this will be assigned? We can either try to increment based on existing RFCs and open RFCs or we can use the tracking issue number.

   3. Fill in the details according to the template intructions.
   4. Submit a pull request.
2. Build consensus and integrate feedback.
   1. RFCs should get approved by at least 2 members of the `kani-developers` team.
   2. Once the RFC has been approved, update the RFC status and merge the PR.

>    3. If the RFC is not approved, close the PR without merging.

Reviewer 3: If the RFC is not approved, replace status of the RFC with a template saying "Closed as per PR blah"

Author: What if we add the reason in the tracking issue itself? Would that be OK?

3. Feature implementation.
   1. Start implementing the new feature in your fork.
   2. It is OK to implement it incrementally over multiple PRs. Just ensure that every pull request has a testable 
      end-to-end flow and that it is properly tested.
   3. In the implementation stage, the feature should only be accessible if the user explicitly passes 
      `--enable-unstable` as an argument to Kani.
   4. Document how to use the feature.
4. Stabilization.
   1. After the feature has been implemented, start the stabilization process.
   2. Gather user feedback and make necessary adjustments.

>    3. Create a new PR that removes the `--enable-unstable` guard and that marks the RFC status as "STABLE". Also 

Reviewer 3: Call this out. This is super important to stabilize the RFC along with the issue.

# Introduction

Kani is an open-source verification tool that uses automated reasoning to analyze Rust programs. In order to 
integrate feedback from developers and users on future changes to Kani, we decided to follow a light-weight 
"RFC" (request for comments) process.

## When to create an RFC

You should create an RFC in one of two cases:

1. The change you are proposing would be a "one way door": e.g. a change to the public API, a new feature that would be difficult to modify once released, deprecating a feature, etc.
2. The change you are making has a significant design component, and would benefit from a design review.

Bugs and smaller improvements to existing features do not require an RFC.
If you are in doubt, feel free to create  a [feature request](https://github.com/model-checking/kani/issues/new?assignees=&labels=&template=feature_request.md) and discuss the next steps in the new issue.
Your PR reviewer may also request an RFC if your change appears to fall into category 1 or 2.

> You do not necessarily need to create an RFC immediately. It is our experience that it is often best to write some "proof of concept" code to test out possible ideas before writing the formal RFC.```

Reviewer 4: Remove back-ticks at the end of the sentence.

## The RFC process

This is the overall workflow for the RFC process:

```toml
    Create RFC ──> Receive Feedback  ──> Accepted?
                                            │ Y
                                            ├───> Implement ───> Stabilize?
                                            │ N                      │ Y
                                            └───> Close PR           ├───> RFC Stable
                                                                     │ N
                                                                     └───> Remove feature
```

1. Create an RFC
   1. Start from a fork of the Kani repository.
   2. Copy the template file ([`rfcs/src/template.md`](./template.md)) to `rfcs/src/<my-feature>.md`.
   3. Fill in the details according to the template intructions.
   4. Submit a pull request.
2. Build consensus and integrate feedback.

>    1. RFCs should get approved by at least 2 members of the `kani-developers` team.

Reviewer 4: I think it's `kani-devs`.

Author: I actually removed the group name here. I still need to figure out a way to enforce this without changing all our PRs.

   2. Once the RFC has been approved, update the RFC status and merge the PR.
   3. If the RFC is not approved, close the PR without merging.
3. Feature implementation.
   1. Start implementing the new feature in your fork.
   2. It is OK to implement it incrementally over multiple PRs. Just ensure that every pull request has a testable 
      end-to-end flow and that it is properly tested.
   3. In the implementation stage, the feature should only be accessible if the user explicitly passes 
      `--enable-unstable` as an argument to Kani.
   4. Document how to use the feature.
4. Stabilization.
   1. After the feature has been implemented, start the stabilization process.

>    2. Gather user feedback and make necessary adjustments.

Reviewer 4: We should define some criteria to stabilize a feature. This reads like "Stabilize right away after implementing it", when in practice we will wait for a feature to be stabilized after a period. Recent bug reports or short periods after implementation should all delay the stabilization of a feature.

Author: Yeah, I totally agree. Any suggestions?

I would prefer keeping it lightweight for now. Something like creating a PR that marks the RFC as stable and remove the `--enable-unstable` requirement. In the description of the PR, the developer states why they believe the feature can be marked as stable and we go from there. I guess we could add a minimum "bake" time like 2 releases.

 I think for the rust project, they have two different process which is more heavy weight. This includes writing a report and starting an FCP (final comment period).

Author: I added a stage between "Implementation" and "Stabilization". Let me know what you think.

Reviewer 4: Thanks for adding another stage. I think that makes clear there is not an immediate path to stabilization, while at the same time keeping the process lightweight as we want.
